README.md, before:

# FSND Log Analysis Project

## Introduction

The purpose of this project is generate a report of a blog's web server activity data analysis using python to query a Postgres DB and save the resulting output to a text file.

## Setup

The FSND Linux VM should be used to ensure compatibility with this project.  Otherwise, you can run this on a Linux system that has Python >=3.5 and Postgres >= 9.5.

The data used for this project can be found in the corresponding FSND materials.

The following SQL Views have been provided in the sql_views.sql:

1.  Top 3 most popular articles.

    CREATE view articles_most_popular
    AS
        SELECT a.title,
             Count(\*) AS total_reads
        FROM   articles AS a
        JOIN (SELECT path,
           REPLACE(path, '/article/', '') AS slug
           FROM   log) AS l
        ON a.slug = l.slug
        GROUP  BY a.title
        ORDER  BY total_reads DESC
        LIMIT  3;

2.  Most popular authors (by article views).

    CREATE VIEW authors_most_popular
    AS
        SELECT au.name,
               Count(\*) AS total_reads
        FROM   authors AS au
        JOIN articles AS a
        ON au.id = a.author
        JOIN (SELECT path,
                    Replace(path, '/article/', '') AS slug
              FROM   log) AS l
        ON a.slug = l.slug
        GROUP  BY au.name
        ORDER  BY total_reads DESC;

3.  Date with the highest percentage of failed requests.

    CREATE VIEW request_high_percent_errors
    AS
        SELECT log_date, ((Cast(total_failures AS FLOAT) / Cast(total_reqs AS FLOAT)) _ 100) AS error_percentage
        FROM   (
                SELECT   Cast(TIME AS DATE) AS log_date,
                         Count(_) AS total_reqs,
                         Count(_) filter (WHERE status = '404 NOT FOUND') AS total_failures
                FROM     log
                GROUP BY log_date) AS log_info
        WHERE  ((cast(total_failures AS FLOAT) / cast(total_reqs AS FLOAT)) _ 100) > 1;

Commit message:

Finished README
Added usage section.
Fixed syntax errors and formatting.

README.md, after:

# FSND Log Analysis Project

## Introduction

The purpose of this project is generate a report of a blog's web server activity data analysis using python to query a Postgres DB and save the resulting output to a text file.

## Setup

The FSND Linux VM should be used to ensure compatibility with this project.  Otherwise, you can run this on a Linux system that has Python >=3.5 and Postgres >= 9.5.

The data used for this project can be found in the corresponding FSND materials.

The following SQL Views have been provided in the sql_views.sql:

-   Top 3 most popular articles.


    CREATE view articles_most_popular
    AS
        SELECT a.title,
             Count(\*) AS total_reads
        FROM   articles AS a
        JOIN (SELECT path,
           REPLACE(path, '/article/', '') AS slug
           FROM   log) AS l
        ON a.slug = l.slug
        GROUP  BY a.title
        ORDER  BY total_reads DESC
        LIMIT  3;

-   Most popular authors (by article views).


    CREATE VIEW authors_most_popular
    AS
        SELECT au.name,
               Count(\*) AS total_reads
        FROM   authors AS au
        JOIN articles AS a
        ON au.id = a.author
        JOIN (SELECT path,
                    Replace(path, '/article/', '') AS slug
              FROM   log) AS l
        ON a.slug = l.slug
        GROUP  BY au.name
        ORDER  BY total_reads DESC;

-   Date with the highest percentage of failed requests.


    CREATE VIEW request_high_percent_errors
    AS
        SELECT log_date, ((Cast(total_failures AS FLOAT) / Cast(total_reqs AS FLOAT)) _ 100) AS error_percentage
        FROM   (
                SELECT   Cast(TIME AS DATE) AS log_date,
                         Count(_) AS total_reqs,
                         Count(_) filter (WHERE status = '404 NOT FOUND') AS total_failures
                FROM     log
                GROUP BY log_date) AS log_info
        WHERE  ((cast(total_failures AS FLOAT) / cast(total_reqs AS FLOAT)) _ 100) > 1;

## Usage

To run the program and generate the report text file:

1.  From the terminal, run `python report.py`
2.  Open the output file named with the format "Log_Report_[current date]".

The majority of the data processing is handled by the Postgres DBMS whereas "report.py" only contains the python code to retrieve data from the SQL Views and format the results into the output file.
